.TH lx-hw-detect 1 "August 2025" "lx-hw-db 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lx-hw-detect \- Privacy-first Linux hardware detection and compatibility analysis tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lx-hw-detect
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I COMMAND

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lx-hw-detect
is a privacy-first hardware detection tool that collects system information using multiple Linux utilities while implementing comprehensive anonymization and privacy protection. It generates hardware compatibility reports and configuration recommendations for optimal Linux system performance.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B detect
Detect hardware and generate compatibility report
.TP
.B check
Check which detection tools are available on the system
.TP
.B validate
Validate existing hardware report files for schema compliance
.TP
.B analyze
Analyze kernel support and provide upgrade recommendations
.TP
.B config
Generate configuration templates for detected hardware
.TP
.B recommend
Generate system configuration recommendations based on hardware
.TP
.B submit
Submit hardware report directly to GitHub for community database

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging output
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all output except errors
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-privacy " " \fIPRIVACY\fR
Set privacy level for data collection. Options: basic (24h salt rotation), enhanced (12h rotation), strict (1h rotation). Default: basic
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fICONFIG\fR
Specify path to configuration file
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information

.SH PRIVACY LEVELS
.TP
.B basic
Basic privacy with 24-hour cryptographic salt rotation. Suitable for most users.
.TP
.B enhanced
Enhanced privacy with 12-hour salt rotation. Recommended for privacy-conscious users.
.TP
.B strict
Strict privacy with 1-hour salt rotation. Maximum privacy protection.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/lx-hw-db/config.toml
System-wide configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/lx-hw-db/config.toml
User-specific configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/lx-hw-db/
User data directory for hardware reports

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Detect hardware with basic privacy:
.B lx-hw-detect detect
.TP
Generate configuration recommendations for Ubuntu:
.B lx-hw-detect recommend --distribution Ubuntu
.TP
Validate a hardware report file:
.B lx-hw-detect validate hardware-report.yaml
.TP
Check available detection tools:
.B lx-hw-detect check

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or configuration
.TP
.B 3
Permission denied (requires root/sudo for some operations)
.TP
.B 4
Required tools not available

.SH SECURITY
lx-hw-db implements comprehensive privacy protection:
.IP \(bu 2
Hardware identifiers are cryptographically hashed using HMAC-SHA256
.IP \(bu 2
Time-rotating salts prevent cross-temporal correlation
.IP \(bu 2
Differential privacy with calibrated noise injection
.IP \(bu 2
K-anonymity principles ensure individual configurations cannot be isolated
.IP \(bu 2
No raw serial numbers, MAC addresses, or UUIDs are collected

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lx-hw-indexer (1),
.BR lshw (1),
.BR dmidecode (8),
.BR lspci (8),
.BR lsusb (8)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/lx-hw-db/lx-hw-db/issues

.SH AUTHORS
Linux Hardware Database Project <maintainers@lx-hw-db.org>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 Linux Hardware Database Project.
License AGPLv3+: GNU Affero GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.